
    Stepfather tortured two-year-old

*A stepfather who tortured a toddler for four months until she died has
been jailed for 12 years and his wife sentenced to six years.*
Daniel Bishop, 27, from Caerphilly carried out attacks on Lois Lazenby
after moving in with her mother. Bishop admitted child cruelty and
manslaughter and wounding with intent to cause grievous bodily harm to
the two year old. Sarah Bishop admitted child cruelty at Cardiff Crown
Court.

John Charles Rees QC, prosecuting, said: "The little girl was
systematically abused, tortured and ultimately killed. "When she died
she was found to have 13 fractures to various parts of her body, a
cigarette burn, crushing injuries to both her hands and numerous bruises
to her head, body and limbs. "The doctor who examined her said she would
have suffered intense and excruciating pain and significant disability.
"Lois received no medical attention and neither of the defendants did
anything to stop her nightmare." The court heard that during one
incident Bishop lifted the little girl's leg onto a red-hot gas hob
causing her severe burns to her left foot. The temperature of the gas
hob was estimated at 150 degrees centigrade.

*Brain haemorrhage*
Both Bishop and her mother claimed it was caused when she walked on
boiling water accidentally spilled from the kettle. Bishop shook her so
violently that she suffered a brain haemorrhage and died two days later.
Lois' mother Sarah Bishop, 29, also admitted child cruelty for "turning
a blind eye". But, the court heard, she was aware of what was going on
because she crudely tried to treat her little girl's injuries.

*Even now Sarah believes that Bishop is the best thing that ever
happened to her and she does not think he committed any of the offences*
Bishop, a drug user, started torturing the little girl "almost
immediately" after moving in with her mother Sarah in the summer of
2004. Lois was two years and three months old when she died on 8
November 2004, at the couple's home on the Lansbury Park housing estate
in Caerphilly.

Mr Rees told the hearing: "Even now Sarah believes that Bishop is the
best thing that ever happened to her and she does not think he committed
any of the offences." The court heard that two social workers visited
the house following reports from a a tradesman working nearby that
Daniel Bishop had smacked the toddler. "Sarah admitted Daniel Bishop
smacked the child, " Mr Rees told the court. "It was her view he was
entitled to do so as a defacto parent." Two weeks later Sarah took Lois
to the doctors for a suspected ear infection. She was told to bring her
back a week later but she failed to do so.

The court heard there was a history of failing to keep appointments or
deliberately keeping Lois away from social workers at times when she was
obviously in pain. Tests carried out on hair taken from Bishop to check
him for drug use, showed the highest level of heroin the forensic expert
had ever seen.

A statement released by Sarah Bishop's mother Shereen Murphy said
justice had been done. "Daniel Bishop has pleaded guilty to Lois's
manslaughter. I am aware that a small minority of the community are
implying that I, as Lois's grandmother, was aware of what that little
girl was suffering and did nothing to stop it. "I ask - do people really
think that if I could have stopped this tragedy happening, would I have
allowed it to happen?"

